Oberlin's Mudd Library recently hosted the EdTech Winter Workshop for professional staff, organized by Albert Borroni and the Oberlin Center for Technology Enhanced Teaching (OCTET). Thirty or so members of the Oberlin community attended, representing divisions from around the campus: the Allen Memorial Art Museum (AMAM), the Conservatory, the Audio Visual team, Cinema Studies, the arts, Center for Information Technology, and the Library.

Because I had to run off to the Mt. Vernon Public Library for the launch of an exhibit -- more on this in a subsequent post -- I was only to stay for the morning portion of the meeting, but I drew out at least two significant observations relevant to Ohio Five Digital Scholarship. (And a bonus meta-observation that I'll reserve for the end of the post.)

First, in back to back presentations Liliana Milkova, Curator of Academic Programs for the AMAM, and Megan Mitchell, Digital Initiatives Coordinator for the Library, spoke about Omeka projects that are up and running or underway as part of a general groundswell in interest for building object-oriented pedagogies. As Mitchell pointed out, some of this interest might be attributed to the increasingly-quick-to-demo faculty who are invested in the platform, not least of whom are Amy Margaris (Anthropology) and Danielle Skeehan (English). This growing interest in Omeka, is not as much about the adoption of a relatively low-barrier-to-entry platform as it is about the local, interdisciplinary community of practice that is growing out of the shared investment in digital pedagogies.

OF course with interdisciplinarity come the opportunities for fortuitous cross-pollinations, and it is precisely these kinds of oportunities that Oberlin hopes to bake into its curriculum in its future strategic vision. Tim Elgren, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, gave a brief presentation on, among many things, a desire to complement the notion of "the major" -- that deep domain knowledge that all undergraduates build -- with theme-based, in interdiciplinary "clusters." In the context of "Studio C" (the C is for "convergreance") requirements will be less discipline-specific and more question-driven. Participants will tackle large questions -- e.g. gender identity in the 21st century, or the politics of water -- by completing courses offered by several different departments and, in the process, triangulate their opinions and develop plans of action based on the kind of nuanced exploration that a lliberal education can provide. 

This corner of Dean Elgrin's presenation frames my second observation, which is fully (I admit) filtered through the lens of my experience and my agenda of furthering digital scholarship in the consortium: there seems to be great possibility to leverage Oberlin's convergeance clusters, if you will, for pointedly humanistic digital endeavors. Not only might one think about, for example, the delivery of humanities data to different audiences and through different media than we have imagined, but one might also interrogate the tools and media with which we present those data. When we begin to ask what arguments a given database is making -- whaof information across the digital divide, we begin to tread a specifically humanistic mode of digital exploration that is interdisciplinary in form and function. In the interest of Ohio Five Digital Scholarship -- my admitted and clear bias, here -- I hope that the coming curriculum changes at Oberlin will take advantage of the inherent interdisciplinarity of what's being called "Digital Humanities."

admittedly more (professionally) self-serving. strategic planning should be built around the curiculum, not the other way around. Stressing the narrative of the pathway through Oberlin curriculum. How do we tell the story of liberal education? Defend (?) liberal education. What is Oberlin's curricular coherence? Goals of the college have been approved by faculty and are driving change, etc. Shaping ourselves to look like a small version of a major research institution no longer makes sense: OBE produces a number of PhDs, but the job opportuniites are no longer there for PhDs. The Major -- as a concept -- isn't necessarily enough anymore; what's it about the liberal education that makes "the major" the most beneficial, unique for UGs? 

The Oberlin experience is the thing that drives change, this was agreed upon and the curricular coherence initiative is in process. Conversations in advising will start to emphasize the whole picture: not fulfilling distribution requirements but with shaping a student's academic identity. 

Students are interested in interdisciplinary educational experiences. This is going to be realized by teaching theme-based cluster courses: various disciplinary expertise Studio C: convergeance... academic convergeance. This is conceived as an "incubator." There's a lot of opportunity here for Digital Humanities/ digital scholarship. The idea is that studetnts will pursue BIG IDEA topics such as Gender Identity, such as the post Fossil Fuel world. But these seem to be ripe for digital interventions: if we're trying to change the world then we might, say, start an Non-Profit, or a startup that involves humanists, social scientists, and computational scientists, etc. This is an opportunity to exenmplify how DH and LAC motives interface. 

Exemplary kind of gathering? Are you doing the same thing? Let us know!

